The Department of Computer Science & Engineering established in the year 1984 was the first CSE department introduced in Kerala. For the last four decades, the department has been imparting a state-of-the-art education, training and research in the field of Computer Science and allied areas, and regularly producing efficient and outstanding professionals. The Department offers B.Tech, M.Tech and Ph.D programmes with excellent infrastructure and well qualified and experienced faculty. A new undergraduate program in Computer Science and Engineering with a specialization in Artificial Intelligence (CSE-AI) has been launched in 2024. This program aims to provide a strong foundation in traditional Computer Science and Engineering principles while incorporating advanced concepts and applications in Artificial Intelligence. The department, recognized as a KTU-approved research center and QIP center, and also includes scholars under the AICTE NDF (National Doctoral Fellowship) scheme.

The faculty members of the department are actively guiding research initiatives and represent various academic bodies, including the Board of Studies (Engineering UG & PG), Academic Council, and the Faculty of Engineering at both Kerala University and APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Over the years the department has bagged top ranks in both Kerala University and APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University consistently. Our students benefit from strong placement and internship opportunities with reputed companies and other higher institutes. Many alumni have reached prominent roles in academia, research institutions, industry, and entrepreneurship. With a team of dedicated and experienced faculty, the department has experienced significant growth in both academics and research. The department is progressing towards setting up research laboratories and R & D centers. The department aims to contribute to the country's development in Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence by equipping the next generation of engineers and computer scientists with the knowledge and skills needed to excel in these fields.